             
            THE TEUBNER PACKAGE VERSION 5.7.3 OF OCTOBER 2022
                 EXTENSION FOR PHILOLOGICAL TYPESETTING


Copyright  2001-2022 Claudio Beccari

The programs contained in this bundle can be  distributed and/or modified
under the terms of the LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL),  version 1.3c 
dated 2008-05-04 or later as it appears in 

                     CTAN/macros/latex/base/lppl.tex.

This bundle contains the following files

README               short description of this bundle
teubner.txt          this file
teubner.dtx          technical documented TeX source file
teubner-doc.tex      user documentation TeX source file
teubner.pdf          technical documentation
teubner-doc.pdf      user documentation

By running pdflatex on teubner.dtx in addition to the technical 
documentation file teubner.pdf, the byproduct files teubner.sty, 
 teubnertx.sty, are generated; teubner-doc.pdf  must be generated 
 by running pdflatex on the source file teubner-doc.tex source file. 
These two .pdf files are already contained in the bundle.

File teubner-doc.pdf is the documentation file that shows what can be 
done with this extension package and displays several examples.

Versiosn 5.2 and later of the teubner package is compliant with the Greek 
language support to babel version 3.9g, that makes use of the encoding 
independent LICR (LaTeX Internal Character Representation) of the Greek 
characters & diacritics; it contains  also the macros that allow using 
the LGR encoded CBfonts together with other PostScript scalable fonts; 
the compatibility with the Times and the Palatino  eXtended  fonts, 
through the packages txfonts and pxfonts, are already  built in; the 
compatibility with the Latin Modern fonts was already available with 
version 2.x of this package.

With  the upgrade of the Greek support for babel through file greek.ldf 
version 1.10, teubner package versions previous to 5.0 became unable to
transform  Arabic numerals into the classical Milesian and Attic number 
representations. From version 5.0 the teubner  package has been patched 
in order to re-establish the above number transformations; some other 
improvements have been added that are transparent to the end user, since 
they deal with the package internal workings. But these improvements 
require a recent installation of the TeX  system, because they use 
interfaces to the new LaTeX 3  language;  the minimum  date of the LaTeX 
kernel should not be earlier than January 2020. 

Some time ago  Antonis  Tsolomitis uploaded  the package txfontsb  which 
adds the possibility of using nice TX compatible  Greek fonts when using 
the TX latin  fonts so as to let the users  typeset  their  documents in 
mixed script.  The upright shape  resembles  the  traditional  Didot one,  
and the italic shape  resembles the Lipsian one;  they come in both  the 
medium  and the bold series and match the TX latin fonts pretty well. 
They probably  match also  the newer newtx text fonts  by Michael Sharpe,  
but since the latter have different font family names, the automatically  
produced .fd files for adapting  the  LGR encoded fonts  to the TX fonts 
are not suited for the newtx text  fonts; in order  to have  matching .fd 
files it is necessary  to proceed in the same way as with any other font 
collection different from the TX one;  the procedure is described in the 
teubner-doc.pdf document.

Although  Tsolomitis' fonts  satisfy very well  the everyday typesetting 
needs  of the Greek  users  and blend  well  also  with the TX math 
fonts, they do not satisfy the requirements of the teubner package. This 
is why the processing of the teubner.dtx file  generates  also  the file 
teubnertx.sty  that is being  input at begin document time when the user 
specified the TX fonts by calling the txfonts package. 

In order to use this extension package with LaTeX you have to install it. 
May be the  very installation of your  (recent) TeX system  distribution 
already provided for this task; may be your  TeX system is configured to 
load missing packages on the fly.  In any case with MiKTeX you can check 
and possibly run your Package Manager: X follow the path: 
                Programs|MiKTeX Settings|Packages.
With TeXlive and  MacTeX   (if their installation configuration was not 
the default complete one) run tlmgr.
  
If you feel more comfortable to do everything by yourself and/or want to 
make  a personal  installation,  run teubner.dtx  through  pdflatex; the 
generated  files are  teubner.sty  and the aforementioned  teubnertx.sty  
file;  they must be moved  where TeX-the-program  can  find  them.  This  
depends  very much  on your  particular  installation  of the TeX system, 
but if your system copes with the TDS  (standard TeX Directory Structure)  
and has  a multiplicity  of different TeX  directory trees,  you probably  
have a \localtexmf  rooted TDS,  or a /texmf one  in your  Home directory 
containing a /tex directory tree which on turn contains a latex directory.  
Under  the latter one  create  a new directory  named, say,  teubner, and 
move to this folder the teubner.sty, and teubnertx.sty files.

I suggest  to create  a directory /teubner in the /doc  directory of the 
locally  rooted structure  and move there  both teubner-doc.pdf  and the 
teubner.pdf file that you get by running pdflatex directly on teubner.dtx.

For what concerns fonts,  they should already be installed with a recent 
TeX system  distribution;  this means  that  there are  already  all the 
files  TeX-the-program  needs  in order  to do  its  work;  there is one 
point, though, that  requires  full  attention;  the default *basic* TeX 
system installation loads only the Type 1 fonts in size 10pt;  all other sizes are obtained  by reducing or enlarging that single size. 
A *complete*  TeX system installation does not  exhibit this limitation. 
There are also non standard scalable Type 1 fonts, such for example, the 
Fourier  ones,  that  come  only  in one size,  the 10pt one;  for these 
fonts it is not strictly necessary  to do the same with the sizes of the 
CBfonts, but if you prefer you can.

In any case the teubner package copes with this situation if you specify 
the "10pt" option   when calling  this package, but if you want  to have  
perfect  optical sizes,  then  you should  download from  CTAN  the full  
collection  and  install it  in  your  computer.  The details  for  this 
installation require  you read with due attention  the instructions that 
come  with  your  TeX system  distribution;  it's not  difficult, but it 
requires  to be very careful  at every step. Remember, though, that your 
Package Manager can do all the work for you.

It's important to control that you have the latest CBfonts;  even if you 
got them pre-installed  with your  TeX system  distribution, may be they 
are not the latest  version.  The full  collection  has  been  redone in 
the year 2007, and partially upgraded in 2010; the reduced collection is 
a subset  of the full one.  Earlier distributions,  dated at least 2002, 
might be compatible, but if you notice something strange with the CBfonts, 
verify if your fonts are up to date.

Another question you might ask yourself:  is my TeX system complete  and
up to date? The fact you installed a TeX system and you did not have the
CBfonts may be an index that  you still have the babel package locked at
a  version  number  earlier than 3.9g. I suggest you to upgrade your TeX
system to the most up to date one you can find on CTAN.

This point  is connected  with the question  of the updated metric files 
related to the Lipsian  fonts;  if your TeX system distribution has been 
updated  to what was available  on CTAN  by May 2010,  your distribution 
already  contains the updated .tfm files. Otherwise, please, update your
CBfonts.

After all these steps are done,  you  are  ready  to  use  your  teubner
extensions;  it will not be  easy at the beginning,  because  there  are 
hundreds  of new commands.  Be sure to have already thoroughly read  the 
documentation file  teubner-doc.pdf  and that you have a hard copy close 
to you. 

Remember,  though,  that most commands  are Latin names or abbreviations 
that  should  be familiar  to any philologist  specialised in classical/
ancient European languages, such as classical Greek, Latin, and so on.

This set of extension  commands  has been tested  in several  documents;
Since I am neither a philologist nor a Greek scholar, I prepared them as 
a *hobby* while trying to help a philologist friend. I hope this package  
may be useful  also to you,  but  I must disclaim  any liability for any 
unwanted results  you might get,  including  the most  dreadful possible 
things that may happen to anybody using a computer.  

I will not write down any strong disclaimer sentence in capital letters,  
because it should be absolutely evident that I did something  I consider
useful,  but is up to you  to decide to use it and face the consequences
(... which, nevertheless, I hope they are what you expected).

If you find this package of some utility but you find some errors and/or    
some glitches,  please write me an e-mail (see below).  If you'd like me 
to realise some other commands,  please send me  by e-mail  your request  
together with a scanned image containing the visual result you'd like to 
obtain. I don't guarantee I'll be able to satisfy your request, but I'll 
give it a try.  In any case  don't ask for things LaTeX can't do; and if 
you use LaTeX, you know what are its pros and cons.

Happy philological LaTeXing!

Claudio Beccari
Professor Emeritus
Politecnico di Torino, Italy
claudio dot beccari at gmail dot com

PS:  My former  professorship  is in electronics,  just  to stress  the 
point that I am not  a philologist,  therefore beware:  this work might 
simply be "trash" to the eyes of a real philologist!
